# Programming Tools

## Table of Contents

* [GitHub](#github)
* [Visual Studio Code](#visual-studio-code)
* [Docker](#docker)
* [Markdown](#markdown)

## GitHub

Throughout this semester, the course instructor will use GitHub to deliver to
you all of the starting source code and documentation for the technical
challenges, practical assignments, and laboratory assignments. In addition to
using GitHub to submit all of your assignments to the course instructor, you can
use GitHub to engage with the instructor and the student technical leaders to
ask questions about your work. The GitHub repositories that you create for your
assignments will also serve as an archive of the material that you can review
for the quizzes and examinations that you will take. To learn more about GitHub,
you can visit the following web sites:

  - [GitHub](https://github.com/)
  - [GitHub Classroom](https://classroom.github.com/)
  - [GitHub Guides on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/githubguides)
  - [Git Version Control Tool](https://git-scm.com/)
  - [Pro Git Book](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2)

## Visual Studio Code

Since the [2019 Stack Overflow Technology
Survey](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2019#technology) reports that
Visual Studio Code (or VSCode) is the most popular development environment, you
will exclusively use it to complete Python programming and technical writing
projects in the field of discrete structures. In addition to providing a wide
variety of program analysis, debugging, linting, and testing tools, VSCode
supports live share programming where two programmers can work together in the
same development environment! VSCode also features an extremely popular and
powerful Python programming extensions that will make your assignments
significantly easier. To learn more about VSCode, you can visit the following
web sites:

  - [VSCode Code Editor](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
  - [VSCode Python Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python)
  - [VSCode Live Share Overview](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/services/live-share/)
  - [VSCode Live Share Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MS-vsliveshare.vsliveshare)
  - [VSCode Live Share Extension Pack](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MS-vsliveshare.vsliveshare-pack)

## Docker

Since a Docker container provides a wide variety of programming tools that
support the implementation and assessment of a Python program, it makes it
easier for you to start programming right away! You are invited to use Docker
Desktop to run programs that the course instructor provides to you through a
Docker container. To learn more about Docker, you can visit the following web
sites:

  - [Can I Run Docker?](https://www.cs.allegheny.edu/canirundocker/)
  - [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)
  - [Docker Desktop Overview](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/)
  - [Install Docker Desktop on Mac](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/)
  - [Install Docker Desktop on Windows](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install/)

## Markdown

In addition to implementing and testing programs in Python, you will write
technical documentation using Markdown, a formatting language that enables you
to use rules to control the display of plain text in your GitHub repository. For
instance, Markdown has features that enable it to display source code, itemized
lists, and graphics. Importantly, you can edit Markdown files inside of your
VSCode text editor and store them in your GitHub repository. Students will write
in Markdown as part of the laboratory and practical assignments and the course
examinations. You can learn more about the Markdown language for technical
writing by visiting these web sites:

  - [Markdown Guide](https://www.markdownguide.org/)
  - [Markdown Cheatsheet](https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet/)
  - [Mastering Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/)
